About the Role:

We are seeking an experienced Data Scientist to join the Data Science department within the ICON Technology Group (ITG), focusing on developing and implementing solutions to streamline processes. The ideal candidate will be a key contributor and will work directly with internal stakeholders to define requirements and deliver solutions that meet stakeholder needs. ICON greatly values the productivity that comes from in-person collaboration, particularly in ITG. 



Our Data Science team supports ICON’s core business by delivering solutions that increase profitability via insightful reporting and achieve cost savings through automation. We use Domo as our primary data visualization tool, giving our executives real-time views of the business and giving users actionable daily reporting. Domo is powered by data sources from ODBC SQL queries, API connectors, Excel uploads, and most notably, Hitachi’s Pentaho robust ETL engine. Candidates should be adept at pulling data from various providers and platforms (e.g., Meta, GA4, Google Campaign Manager, Adobe Analytics) via API connectors, using Domo’s ETL functionality to transform that data and designing clear dashboards to give clients real time insights about their digital media. Candidate should also be comfortable leveraging technology (typically Python) to implement automation in our processes to streamline data reporting and compress delivery timelines.



Responsibilities:

Work with client facing departments to understand client information needs; identify and configure data sources to feed data into our environment. 
Maintain and improve existing Python-based systems: e.g., every week, ICON receives hundreds of log files with important but disorganized data; we employ a complex Python process to automatically ingest, compile, and transform those files into standardized weekly client reporting; candidate would continue improvements to that process. 
Develop end-to-end solutions: identify data sources, develop API & ETL processes to generate production-ready datasets, perform data validation, and build dashboards. 
Serve as an automation solutions architect- develop a framework for connecting and aggregating disparate data in efficient manner; streamline processes to ensure quick\real-time reporting to internal and external stakeholders; create reusable templates that can be used to support dashboard design and delivery.
Develop and integrate internal and external client-facing reporting to ensure relevant metrics and insights are shown and understood.
Employees are expected to adopt a schedule of being physically in office 4 to 5 days per week.
Monitor current trends in key business areas, providing valuable insights to our Digital Media department to improve overall business performance and foster organic growth. 
Adhere to and document standards and practices employed in delivering solutions.


Requirements:

4-5+ years of experience, bachelor’s degree in data science, computer science, statistics, information systems, or related field.
Experience leveraging expert Python and SQL skills in a business environment; work in predictive analytics is a plus.
Intermediate/Advanced Excel skills (minimum vlookup, pivot tables, conditional formatting, named ranges, etc.).
(Preferred) Experience working in digital media environment; familiar with concepts like attribution, floodlight tags, click-through rates, etc. 
(Preferred) Experience with business intelligence and data visualization tools, such as Domo, Data Studio, etc.
(Preferred) Experience in R, SAS, Python, MATLAB or other data analysis/statistical languages.
Strong problem solving and analytical skills.
Effective written communication skills - ability to express ideas clearly and concisely; Candidates shall demonstrate this by submitting a single-page resume. 


Strong business analysis and verbal skills are a must, as this position interfaces with users at various levels of the business. Qualified candidates will demonstrate effective problem resolution skills, communicate solutions clearly and effectively and work cooperatively within the ICON Technology Group. 